In topic modeling one can use an approach of additive regularization. Its main idea is maximization of sum of likelihood and regularizer. Applying Karush-Kuhn-Tucker theorem, one can obtain the system of equations for stationary points of regularized likelihood. Solving this system by the method of simple iterations leads to EM-algorithm.

We studied a convergence of this algorithm. The following theorem was proved. If provided six conditions are satisfied then the difference between model parameters at neighbour iterations tends to zero. Let me explain the meaning of the proposed conditions. The first and the second mean that regularizer saves zero. They can be paraphrased next way. If phi_wt or theta_td is set to zero at some iteration it will be equal to zero at the further iterations. All used regularizers fit this condition. The third means separability of phi_wt and theta_td from zero. In other words, they may be equal to zero, but can't be infinitesimal. In practice, this condition can be satisfied due to machine precision or by using thinning on M-step. The fourth condition is technical. It requires that likelihood was finite during iterations. The fifth condition indicates separability of the norming denominator on M-step from zero. Actually, it can be treated as a criteria of topic selection. The sixth condition is a standard requirement of GEM algorithms, it means an increasing of lower bound of regularized likelihood. Unfortunately, it wasn't proved that this condition is fulfilled for the original M-step so it was proposed two modifications of M-step which the condition is satisfied for. The first one suggests replacing phi and theta with their unbiased estimators in formulas of regularization additives(r_wt and r_td) on M-step. The other modification is to use a gradient of the regularizer as regularization additives.

One carried out the experiment comparing these three ways of M-step at the example of regularizer of decorrelation. The experiment confirmed that there is an improvement of optimization for proposed modifications.
